# Code and data for the paper "Thin polytopes: lattice polytopes with vanishing local h*-polynomial"

The file max_hollows.m contains Magma code written almost entirely by Christopher Borger supplementing the proof of Theorem 4.3 concerning the classification of 3-dimensional thin lattice polytopes. Running the code returns no "Exception!" and shows that in fact all thin 3-dimensional polytopes contained in one of the 12 maximal hollow ones are Cayley polytopes, i.e., they all have lattice width 1.

The file functions.sage contains several SageMath functions we found useful in dealing with the local h*-polynomial of a lattice polytope. In particular, it includes the methods l_star_polynomial and l_star_polynomial_simplex for computing the local h*-polynomial (also called l*-polynomial) of a lattice polytope resp. lattice simplex. The latter is significantly faster when dealing with simplices because our implementation of the g-polynomial is slow. We also provide the method cayleyJoinFactors which gives all possible ways in which a full-dimensional lattice polytope is the Cayley join of two faces, if at all. Moreover, we include a method isSpanning which decides for a given full-dimensional lattice polytope in RR^d whether its lattice points span all of the ambient lattice (which is assumed to be ZZ^d here).
We do *not* guarantee correctness (let alone efficiency). Use at own risk.

The folders 4-polytopes, 5-simplices and 6-simplices contain .txt files whose lines are the lists of vertices of all thin, trivially thin or {thin but not trivially thin} lattice polytopes (resp. simplices) of the respective dimension and having the volume which is indicated by the file name. For example, v7_thin_notTriviallythin.txt in the folder 4-polytopes contains all {thin but not trivially thin} 4-dimensional lattice polytopes of (normalized) volume 7, given as the list of its vertices. Note that the vertices are all "homogenized" in the sense that they all start with an additional 1. This allows for direct usage of these lists in Polymake. The disadvantage is that, e.g. in SageMath, these lists never give a full-dimensional polytope.
We used intensively the data provided by Gabriele Balletti at: https://github.com/gabrieleballetti/small-lattice-polytopes
